Unfortunately, the work I did for Ford Motor Company was proprietary and I am unable to share the actual deliverables. I have described my
process in detail below, and when appropriate, described the projects I developed for Ford.
What I Did: Launched an email campaign which grew followers by over 300% during my direction, developed web-based training guides and
infographics for clients to explain my department’s processes, researched and presented data regarding smart city and smart mobility policy with concise visuals
What I Used: html, css, adobe creative suite, Microsoft SharePoint, Microsoft Outlook
My Process:
Email Campaign |
I conducted extensive interviews to understand what users internal to my department as well as external currently understood about the department’s
efforts. I also researched widely the best platforms to reach people, using surveys and interviews to understand options with the best reach. I then
presented multiple design solutions for emails to my managers, iterated over several approaches, tested the final few campaigns on team members,
and eventually wrote all the content as well as developed the final product independently. I taught myself best practices for email marketing and
email specific UI design, and developed the actual deliverables. During the campaign, I tracked the metrics for how many people received the email,
opened it, and visited the links embedded to track engagement, and was able to increase subsciptions by 300% and drive unique visits to my
department’s website by 140% throughout my 12-week internship.
Training Infographic & Website Development |
I conducted interviews with new team members as well as new clients to understand their frustrations and pain points with the onboarding systems
for my department. I built a new information architecture for materials previously stored on slide decks and in binders, creating interactive SharePoint
sites to host this content. Furthemore, I found in interviews that the materials were boring and hard to digest, so I designed a set of infographics using
Adobe Creative Suite to engage people in the onboarding process. I then tested the materials by observing users, seeing that instead of clicking
through material too quickly or staying on sections for too long, people engaged with the content in much more manageable amounts of time. In exit
surveys, users reported an average of 51% higher satisfaction as compared to prior onboarding experiences.